--play Ubermosh sound--

Steam's discovery queue periodically surprises me. In between
recommendations for esteemed titles like Hentai Loot Box Simulator or Hentai Vs
Furries, I'll come across the occasional hidden gem, such as Ubermosh: Omega. 

It's an ultraviolent antidote to all of the bullshit in AAA titles, from
the scripted action sequences to the invasive microtransactions.  Here, it's
just you, your saint, and the thousands of corpses beneath your feet.

Before I talk about the mechanics in detail, I want to briefly mention the
game's outstanding kineasthetics.  From the grungy industrial music blaring in
the background, to the ridiculous particle effects flying over the screen,
Ubermosh is a feast for the eyes and ears, almost to the point of being a
sensory overload.  Thankfully, since each round is short, the game never
becomes straining to play. 

The combat is quite simple. You select one of six classes and create a basic
arsenal comprised of two powerups, ranging from shields to advanced weaponry.
After that, you enter a triangular arena where you must survive for 90 seconds
while simultaneously slaughtering as many foes as possible. The more you kill,
the higher your rank. That's easier said than done, since one mistake can
result in total failure. Therefore, proper positioning and threat management
are paramount to survival. 

Ultimately, I think what makes this cycle work is how many microdecisions the
player needs to make on the fly. In your head, you'll constantly juggle your
attention between eviscerating trash, dodging energy rings, and repositioning
your saint. When combined with the game's intense visuals, this combat loop in
a massive adrenaline rush, making every round feel utterly chaotic. 


Now, let me talk about each of the Saints, as their playstyles radically differ from
each other, with some feeling more unpredictable than the others. 

Aya is a slow burner, as she starts off incredibly weak, with only a pistol for
primary fire and a puny sword for her secondary . As a result, she gets easily
overwhelmed by mobs from the getgo.  However, as the match progresses, she gets
progressively stronger, until she becomes an obscene monster in the last few
seconds. The crux of her playstyle are the timed shields that she possesses.
You need to be on the offensive to build up her passive strength, otherwise,
you will lose. Personally, I like equipping a the boneblade or warlock rifle to
help her start out, since I find that's the most critical time period for Aya.


T7 channels the power of hentai to eviscerate his enemies with...tentacles.
His primary attack is standard automatic fire and his secondary shoots out a
swarm of tentacles. While he excels at clearing mobs, he's got several
drawbacks that limit his otherwise amazing crowd control.  For starters, his
main source of damage comes from his appendages, with his gunfire being merely
adequate. This issue is most noticeable versus elites like Shredders, as their
shields make them highly resilient to his feelers. As a result, if he focuses
them down, he becomes vulnerable to the projectiles coming from mobs. I find
that the Warlock Rifle powerup greatly mitigates this issue, but he still
struggles.  Secondly, the ending momentum lag present in movement makes T7's
tentacle swarm feel clunky to use, as if he's having constant microspasms,
making him feel more sluggish than he actually is. 

Q is unique in that she's the only melee-exclusive Saint in the game. Her
primary and secondary are identical, with them both being rapid melee strikes.
While this sounds like a liability, she's got two tools to help make up for
that. Excluding Shredders, Q's sword is able to deflect back projectiles. Do
keep in mind that she's not able to parry energy rings, which the game doesn't
convey clearly. These discs should've been a different color to emphasize this
trait, since it's not readily apparent that Aya cannot deflect them, but with
how shit is flying on-screen, I can understand why there isn't more visual
contrast in the bullet design.

Q's signature is her powerful Melter lasers emitted in front of and behind her,
based on her kill count. These are controllable, so she can quickly sweep
through crowds of enemies by spinning the cursor. Overall, Q is a high risk and
high reward character. She needs to actively parry enemy bullets to survive and
must abuse her melter lasers to clear out Shredders, which are the bane of her
existence. But once you do get a hang of her playstyle, she is an exceptionally
powerful class.

Reez rides the lightning. Like Aya, she starts off with rather unimpressive
weaponry. However, her strength lies in her passive brainclaps, which shoot out
a cone of lightning bolts based on her score. Thus, to maximize Reez's
effectiveness, you need to constantly chain together brainclaps, forcing you to
be ultraaggressive in scoring kills.  I think Reez best embodies the manic
spirit of this game, and her playstyle encourages you to be highly reckless. 

That said, this brings me to a major gripe I have with the game. When I first
played Reez, I thought brainclaps were random or based on a cooldown since
there wasn't clear feedback given. I think this problem largely comes down from
how poorly designed the HUD is. The brainclap text is red, so it has no visual
contrast to enemy blood.  Furthermore, it's overlayed on top of the timer, kill
count, and lives bar, so it's hard to read even if the arena isn't covered in
guts. 

If I were to redesign the user interface, I'd get rid of the text labels
and put an emphasis on symbols, so putting in a clock icon next to the timer,
or replacing the triangles in the respawns bar with hearts.  Then we could
center the brainclap text underneath the player and make the KO counter change
color for a bit when it triggers so there's a clearer understanding of their
relationship. 


Kore. Why have one gun when you can have 4? Unlike the other Saints in the
game, Kore cannot attack directly. Instead, he relies upon his four autogun
sentries to clear out foes. They all fire in a conal pattern in front of him,
though he can use the fire button to toggle two autoguns behind him.  Mastering
his sentries' firing modes is key to success as Kore, as the "conal" pattern
allows him to burst down priority threats, while his "x" pattern can sweep
through more crowds. Positioning is especially important for Kore, since he cannot
deflect back projectiles. I'd say he's the weirdest Saint in the game, due to
his mechanics being completely standalone, but once you understand his quirks,
he becomes much easier to get a handle on. I do wish there was more I could do
with him on a moment-to-moment basis, since his autoguns make him feel like I'm
playing on autopilot. Not a dealbreaker, but his design does seem to be the
most basic, so I find him slightly uninteresting from a mechanics standpoint. 

Wook. Of all of the Saints in the game, Wook is the only one I actively
dislike.  He seems to be a hybrid of Kore and Reez, having autogun sentries
like the former, and lightning bolts like the latter.  Problem is, he  does
neither of those particularly well. He has only two autoguns, so they feel
rather ineffective, and he only has a singular lightning bolt, making his crowd
clear practically nonexistent. I feel like Wook could've easily been removed
from the game, since he has no mechanics that make him truly stand out. 

Overall, Ubermosh: Omega is a great little time sink, despite its issues with
visual clarity. Truth be told, I would've liked to see online leaderboards or
local co-op to extend the game's longevity, but I think it's more than worth
the asking price as is. 

Thank you very much for watching. As I promised, this is a shorter video. As
for the next project, it's all hands on deck as I work on a critique of
Borderlands 3. Given how much there is to talk about the game, it's going to be
a while, so it'll at least be a month, if not a few until the video comes out.
If you'd like to keep up to date on channel news, you can follow me on Twitter
@SquidTheSid1 or join the Squidcord discord server.  Finally, if you'd like to
be absolved of all guilt from using an adblocker, you can financially support
this channel over on Patreon.

As always,

Stay Frosty
